Title: Going Green
Date: 2016-11-05 13:40
Category: General
Tags: status, fresh, pelican
Slug: going-green
Authors: Adam Coldrick
Summary: A migration has been completed, hello world.

I finally achieved a thing I've been wanting/meaning to do for ages.
I made a simple way to add content to this site.
"Made" might be stretching it a little,
I discovered [pelican][0] some time ago
and already use it to build [the Teablog][1] for my wife.
Its a wonderful tool
which allows one to write content for a site
in [Markdown][2] or [reStructured Text][3].

This means I can store my content as a bunch of text files,
which is much easier to manage than loading stuff from a database
as I was doing before.
It also means that I can get rid of all the PHP
that I never want to see again,
since it allows the generation of static site pages in the same way
using its templating system.
It also means I'll be able to store the whole lot in git,
but I haven't done that yet,
since I've yet to solve the fun of all the random images
that I don't want to break links to.

I took this opportunity to also fully redesign the site
and make it a bit more modern.
The endless blue and one-curved-corner is gone
in favour of a foresty green,
the colour I'm enjoying most at the moment.

In addition to this,
I've also finally migrated this site off my old webhost onto my VPS.
This is nice because it takes me one step closer
to the thing I started trying to achieve over a year ago;
actually moving from my old host to this.
Now I just need all the other things I use the old sotk.co.uk place
for, like email...

I intend to actually update this place with interesting posts about
the things I'm working on in my life,
mostly code and sometimes worldbuilding.
It will no doubt be interesting
to see how long I actually keep it up this time...

[0]: http://docs.getpelican.com/en/stable/
[1]: http://tea.sotk.co.uk/
[2]: https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/
[3]: http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/ref/rst/restructuredtext.html
